Group Name: Blur 1
Team Members: 
Anthony Arbour, Adam Smith, Jacob Boudreau, Sam Beaudoin, Kenneth Seneres, 
Henrikus Freeman
App Name/Category: Blur Body Balance/Health & Fitness
Application Description:
Blur Body Balance helps keep track of your weight, diet, and workouts all in one place to motivate you to meet your goals. This project seeks to develop an all in one place to keep track of your health. This app overall purpose is to make a fitness app for the everyday user. The app will offer easy to use/good looking gui. The main screen of the app will be able to be customized with the most relevant information for the user. An example of this will be is if the user wished to have a graphical display of their activity and their calorie intake. The app will also allow the user to keep a record of daily workouts in order to allow the user to be consistent in daily workouts. The app will also allow the user to goals and will be able to display their progress on the goals. The app will also be able to generate reports on the data collected  within the app. Overall the app will be an all in one hub for the user to store information on their lifestyle and improvements.

In order to separate this app from everyday apps we seek to give it a life of its own. The app will be to become a friend/ motivational coach. The app will be able to view your daily activity level and progress to your goals. When you are living a healthy lifestyle and reaching your goals the app will be your best friend. It will compliment you on your progress to keep you motivated. On the other end if you start becoming lazy and not meeting your goals it will get on your case. It will start off by giving friendly reminders to get moving. If you continue to fall short the comments will become more passive-aggressive and less friendly. This way it will motivate you get back to work and to get the app to start complimenting you again. By adding comments we seek to give the daily user someone that cares if they are doing well and will hold them accountable for failing. This in turn will hopefully keep them more interested. Overall this app will be companion and record keeper for you.

Similar Applications:
Samsung Health: The Samsung Health app allows you to keep track of some of the core aspects of fitness, such as exercise, food, sleep, and weight management. It can pair with wearables to gather data such as heart rate and steps. It has a section with social features, a section to check for medical conditions and symptoms, and a section on health and wellness related articles. It has a few features that make the process of health tracking a little more automatic, such as being able to detect walking or running, and calculating when you've gone to sleep.
Differences: This app will be cross platform and available on most mobile devices. This app will also be able to comment on your progress and be customizable.
Fitbit: The Fitbit app allows you to track many aspects of your fitness. The Fitbit app is designed to be used with a wearable Fitbit but the aspects can be manually recorded. Fitbit can track calories, exercise, water, food, and sleep all on a customizable dashboard. Fitbit also allows you to set goals and compete with other users. 
Differences: Our app would allow the user to track these different health aspects but would not focus on gathering data from a wearable device. Our app would be an all in one fitness app for anyone to record health data without needing a specific wearable device, or subscription.  The app will also be able to make comments on your progress and motivate the user
Google Fit: A fitness app developed by Google and is only available on the play store. Google app is based on tracking users activity and setting user designed goals. Google fit provides it recommended fitness goals, developed in conjunction with WHO, in which the user can work towards. This app also provides a point system to motivate users to moves. Google Fit generates graphical representations of the users data. The app also provides tips in which the user can view.  The overall score for the app is 3.8. This lower score is due to inaccurate data tracking, uncustomizable features, and inability to remove/slash edit incorrect data.
Differences: This app will be cross platform and available on most mobile devices. This app will also be able to comment on your progress and be customizable. The app will also be independent from a big company.

